---
type: entry
summary: 'Rewatched The Matrix, 1999 - ★★★★★'
featured: 'https://image.tmdb.org/t/p/original/f89U3ADr1oiB1s9GkdPOEpXUk5H.jpg'
date: '2024-08-26'
watch-of:
  type:
    - cite
  properties:
    name:
      - The Matrix
    photo:
      - 'https://image.tmdb.org/t/p/original/f89U3ADr1oiB1s9GkdPOEpXUk5H.jpg'
    uid:
      - 'tmdb:603'
    url:
      - 'https://themoviedb.org/movie/603'
    published:
      - '1999'
    content:
      - >-
        Set in the 22nd century, The Matrix tells the story of a computer hacker
        who joins a group of underground insurgents fighting the vast and
        powerful computers who now rule the earth.
progress: finished
rating: '5'
rewatch: true
tags:
- indieweb movie club
syndicate-to:
  - 'https://fed.brid.gy/'
updated: '2024-08-27T03:44:05.961Z'
client_id: 'https://sparkles.sploot.com/'
---
<span class="matrix">
  <span class="typewriter">Wake up, Neo...</span>
</span>

<i>This post is my entry for <a href="https://marksuth.dev/posts/2024/08/indieweb-movie-club-august-2024-the-matrix-1999">IndieWeb Movie Club #001</a>.</i>

It's hard to write anything original about a movie (and series) that has had every frame analyzed, discussed, copied, and (to some degree) has come true.

Instead of an analysis or review, I came up with a list which may or may not carry over to future IndieWeb Movie Club posts.

- **First viewing**: I can't say exactly but I know it was in theaters. We had one movie theater in the town I grew up and it played movies about 6 months after they were released elsewhere. So I want to say either late '99 or early '00.
- **Watch count**: I've logged this movie 4 times between my site and my [letterboxd](https://letterboxd.com/benji/film/the-matrix/diary/). But even before this I had probably seen this double of that. So I'm estimating between <mark>10-15</mark>.
- **Favorite quote**: <q>What is real? How do you define 'real'? If you're talking about what you can feel, what you can smell, what you can taste and see, then 'real' is simply electrical signals interpreted by your brain.</q>
- **Favorite scene**: This one is difficult because every scene is great for different reasons. Trinity's first scene is pretty great and builds up to what action scenes are going to look like in this movie. Morpheus training with Neo does so many new things while taking shots and moves straight out of the media that inspired it. Then there's the writing with scenes like Morpheus in the construct teaching Neo about the Matrix, and Smith's interrogation scene venting his frustrations of humanity vs machines and his place in this world. But I think in this last watch something stuck out to me about the scene where they are going to unplug Morpheus. I interpreted this moment as Neo finally understanding what Morpheus was teaching him during the fight and the jump programs. The word <i>believe</i> is used a lot. <q>Free your mind</q>.
- **Prop I wish I had**: Many movies have done the multiple monitor workstation, but this is the one I wanted.

While this is my favorite of the series, I do love all the sequels and the Animatrix. Since I can't just watch one, I'm probably going to continue on to the rest of the series before next months IndieWeb Movie Club.

<span class="matrix">
  <span class="typewriter" style="animation-delay: 15s">The Matrix has you...</span>
</span>
